Okay, welcome to the session on
JBuilder 5 for Mac OS X.
So, many of you have seen me before
in one session or another.
My name is Blake Stone,
Chief Scientist for Borland
Software Corporation.
We dumped the in-prize moniker for good.
Yes.
And we'll be spending a lot
of time looking at a lot of
detailed features in JBuilder.
You've probably seen some
quick overview views.
You've seen a smattering of features,
but not a lot of explanation
for what's behind them,
and no look really at
what's new in JBuilder 5,
especially since JBuilder is
really new to the Macintosh
community as a whole at this point.
But I know there's some of you
out there who are already JBuilder
users and are just waiting,
so we'll showcase some of the
JBuilder 5 new features as well.
Why don't we have a look, in fact,
at what we're going to do.
With the tour of JBuilder 5,
we're going to try to walk
through the major areas,
but it's a big, deep product.
Anybody who's used it knows that.
I'll try to give you a
hint of what's there,
but if you don't see something
you're interested in,
get a hold of us.
Get on the news group,
check out the CD we've handed out,
whatever it takes.
Make sure that you find out
the answer to your question.
And of course,
I'll be hovering around the conference
for the next day or two as well.
We're going to cover
some of the new features.
We're going to look at the
new features in JBuilder 5,
and we're going to look
a little bit at writing
Macintosh-specific code in JBuilder,
because we keep talking about pure
Java and how JBuilder is pure Java,
and some people confuse that
with being swing-specific.
Java is Java.
You can as easily write
Cocoa applications in Java,
with a few caveats we'll
talk about in a little bit,
as you can write swing applications,
and so that's an
interesting topic by itself.
We'll talk a little bit about the preview
CD you got and how to get that up and
running to the best of its ability,
especially getting a
hold of the new features.
We'll get a hold of the update
that you require to the VM from
Apple to really make it sing,
and then we'll have a Q&A session.
So JBuilder, the basics that we're
going to walk through.
You'll see everything, of course,
uses the Aqua look and feel.
And this is courtesy more of Apple's
work than anything we've done.
We've tried to make sure
that we use Swing purely for
all of our user interface.
And so the Aqua look and feel
does a great job of translating
our appearance into a really
nice Macintosh user experience.
So JBuilder, the basics that we're
going to walk through.
You'll see everything, of course,
uses the Aqua look and feel.
And this is courtesy more of Apple's
work than anything we've done.
And so the Aqua look and feel
does a great job of translating
our appearance into a really
nice Macintosh user experience.
So JBuilder focuses very much
on allowing you to keep directly
in touch with your source code.
It differs from some of the other major
tools out there in that not only do
we get direct access to your source
code and you spend a lot of time on it,
but it also allows you to keep
in touch with your source code.
code and you spend a lot of time
in the editor manipulating code,
but we store your source
code in just standard files.
There's no binary repository anywhere
that hides your code from you so
you can very easily use JBuilder in
conjunction with other tools that expect
you to have direct access to your code.
We're going to talk a little bit about
the performance of the editor because
that's something that I think is an
interesting topic for Java developers.
Everybody was told from
day one Java is slow.
Java is slow.
You hear it often enough
and you begin to believe it.
But the actual fact is that
Java code is amazingly quick.
Hotspot is a startling technology
and can do a lot of things in a
dynamic compiler that you can't
even do in a static compiler.
So we wring a lot of performance
out of it and you'll see a
lot of that in the editor.
The editor does some interesting
structural analysis that if you
were at the Java developer tool
session we talked about a little bit.
And of course we added something to the
editor to make it comfortable for you.
We added key bindings
that mirror the text edit,
project builder,
sort of the standard class editor.
They're sort of the standard classical
Apple key bindings as well as the
BB edit slash code warrior key bindings
that you may be accustomed to so you
don't have to retrain your fingers
for a whole new set of keystrokes.
We're also going to talk a
little bit about navigation
through your source code,
code insight and Java doc
and how they increase your
productivity right from day one.
And this is going to be
kind of an ongoing theme,
this increased productivity.
How do we make you more productive each
and every day in the product rather
than how do we provide some things
that we don't want to be able to do?
So you may be able to do a lot of
things that look good in a demo and
may help you learn on the first few
days but then you grow beyond them.
No, no, no,
these are tools that you will use
again and again and again as you
continue to develop Java code.
We're going to go from there
into a little bit more about the
project orientation of JBuilder,
the fact that the project structure
isn't something you need to spend a
lot of time fiddling with in JBuilder.
There are a lot of other products where
you need to add every single source file.
Well, we deal with projects of thousands
of source files and so if adding
and removing them from your project
is not the right thing to do,
then it is.
We're going to be able to do
that in a little bit more detail
in a little bit more detail.
But if you're going to do a lot
of work in a project that is
a major maintenance nightmare,
that's something we need to get rid of.
And in fact, we've done some very
interesting work on that area.
We've got a very fast compiler.
You'll see that every single demo I do,
of course, the compiler will kick in with
very clever dependency checking.
We'll talk a little bit about that.
And a very powerful archive builder.
So if your project construction process
involves producing a jar for someone,
we can help you out there too.
So let's have a look at those very
basic characteristics of JBuilder.
If we can flip to the
system in front of me here,
we'll go ahead and bring JBuilder up.
see how well the optical mouse
tracks on this lovely surface.
And JBuilder is structured so that you
can see a number of things at once.
And I might as well introduce them
before we get a little bit deeper.
The project view in the upper
left-hand corner here is where you
see the structure of your project,
the packages that comprise your project,
your source files.
The lower left is where you
see structural information,
and the center is where
you see the content view,
where we can open any number
of files concurrently.
So I've got, in this case,
Welcome app and Welcome frame open,
which we can flip back and forth between.
Along the bottom of the content view,
we have a number of different
viewers for that particular content.
And we'll see some of
those a little bit later.
But just so you know what's where and
why I'm doing the things I'm doing.
We focus on the editor a lot of the time.
So the editor had better be fast.
It had better just keep up with
my typing as fast as I can type.
It had better scroll
quickly through my code,
so I'm not waiting for it a lot.
And that's not all that impressive
until you realize that every single
line of code-- every single line of
code in JBuilder is written in Java.
So your applications can look this fast,
have this kind of
response and performance.
So if you were concerned about
Java from that standpoint,
please don't be.
Also, we do a lot of structural
analysis on the code.
So as I type slash and
I'm about to hit a star,
you'll notice that we can immediately
note that all of that is a comment,
there is no structure,
we've colored it green,
and just as quickly, it comes back.
So very, very quick analysis.
And we talked about this a
little bit in another session,
just in case you weren't there.
And out of interest,
how many people here weren't
at the developer tools session
for Java earlier today?
OK, a number of you out there.
So if you were, please forgive me.
We'll try not to dwell a lot on
things that were talked about there.
But the structure over here shows me the
structure of the class I'm working with.
And so if I declare a new integer,
it shows up in that structural view.
We can actually control how
quickly these things are updated,
and we've got it set
about as fast as it'll go.
So as I continue to type,
you can see that on the fly,
in real time,
we're able to discover that this
variable name is changing over here.
So that gives us the ability really
to give you a constant heads up
about the state of your file.
Because not only can we show you
the class and its members and give
you a quick navigational interface,
we can also show you
if you make a mistake,
like omitting a closed brace here,
that there are structural
errors in your code immediately.
So that you know what's going on.
You can find out what's going on.
And you can see that there is no
catch associated with this try
because we never closed the try block.
And just that fast we can
correct it without ever going
through a compile cycle.
So that's a really important
piece of getting you
performant in the environment.
By the way, as far as the editor goes,
again, for those of you who weren't here,
it's very fully featured.
So I can do things like block, indent,
and unindent no problem,
comment out a set of lines,
a whole bunch of very helpful keystrokes,
and a bunch of quick mechanisms
for typing common structures.
Like if I want to put
an if block in place,
I can put an if else block
and expand that template with
just a couple of keystrokes.
All of these things are customizable
for your preferred key bindings.
So I can easily go in and say,
I'd like to customize a key
binding and change the keystrokes,
or even just go in and use one of
the prefab ones like my Macintosh or
Macintosh Code Warrior key bindings.
[Transcript missing]
And I'm going to accept all of the
defaults here for an untitled project,
but I'm going to tell it that
I already have source code for
this project in another location.
Specifically, I'm going to go look at the
samples we provide and pick
up the chess sample source.
So if I go ahead and build this project,
immediately my project pane shows me
that these are the packages I have.
They're sub-packages and
all of the source files.
I don't need to define this by hand.
And in fact,
if I were to go and check code out
of a repository into that directory,
I can easily refresh and get
the up-to-date information.
Or next time I open the project,
it'd just be there without
my having to ask for it.
So very powerful tool.
Now all I need to do to build
this project is request a compile,
and the compiler kicks in.
It's interesting,
we're not getting a whole bunch
of build progress reported.
Of course, I am working with an interim
build of the Java VM here,
so heaven knows what we'll run into,
the usual demo gremlins.
But as you saw there,
it didn't take very long.
It's hard to believe
it did anything at all,
but in fact, it just produced class files
for every single source in here.
And as you saw a moment ago,
there's a number of
packages and sub-packages,
and everything was compiled.
Subsequent compiles are
amazingly quick as well.
If I go into a particular file,
and we'll just mark it dirty
by making a change to it,
and then go ahead and say
recompile this project,
then it notices very quickly there's only
one file that needs to be recompiled.
But it's not like your typical system
where if I'd made a change in the
API that somebody else required,
it would just be broken.
No, no.
If I make a change that
somebody else is going to call,
then it notices that not only does
this file need to be compiled,
but, eh,
turns out it's not going to be compiled.
that's API nobody else uses.
Wouldn't you know it?
I don't know this
particular demo real well.
I love just sort of flying
by the seat of my pants.
It finds that in fact there's a
reference to that method somewhere
else and it tried to recompile all the
files that required that piece of API.
So it's a very frighteningly
complicated system,
but in fact one that just takes
care of all the grunge work for you.
I work on a project that has thousands
and thousands of source files.
JBuilder.
And I use JBuilder as my IDE and I can
compile changes in a matter of seconds
to this enormous project and it follows
all of the dependencies for me and
takes care of all of the details.
So that's pretty amazing
from my perspective.
I'm not going to save my changes.
The next thing that I mentioned
is that once I'm done building a
project and I've got a bunch of files,
I probably want to
deliver that to someone.
And so archive building is
an important part of that.
It's an important part of the compiler,
the build process.
So what we've got is a technology
called the archive wizard.
All I do is go into the archive
builder wizard here and say I'd like
to build an application from this.
I can set all sorts of
options or accept defaults.
I can come in at any later time to
any of the jars that I'm trying to
build and edit their characteristics.
In this case,
I'd like to specify a particular class
as the main class for this application.
If I remember correctly,
we'll go ahead and pick the server
side of this particular chess app.
And now when I go to recompile,
it's going to recompile my files.
Did I actually save that accidentally?
That would be bad.
We'll go ahead and look for it.
Yeah, I accidentally did.
One of the things I'm using here,
by the way, I'm just typing in a tree.
And it brings up a little
search mechanism that allows
me to search the tree.
It's kind of interesting because I can
search based on wildcards and find
all of the things that start with GE.
Or say, I'd like to find the things
that have PL somewhere in them
and then move among those.
It turns out to be only one.
So let's go ahead and change this back.
Apologies on that.
So now it goes ahead and
compiles and creates the archive.
So it's built a jar for me that
contains all of my classes,
that contains the manifest entries.
And I can verify that by actually
opening the jar in the product
and having a look at its contents,
including the manifest file.
So really quick way of going
ahead and dealing with projects,
building output.
It's not something you
would expect from Java.
But having built this over time,
we've gained really a new appreciation
for just how fast Java can be.
If I can get back to my slides, please.
So I promised we would go through
this at a fairly blistering pace.
Please excuse me.
I normally like interactive sessions,
but there's just far too many
people further back to make
that really practical here,
so we'll take Q&A at the end.
Visual design is a big piece of
the JBuilder environment because
Java beans are a big piece of
the set of Java specifications.
They were a very early player
in the numerous Java specs
that are out there now,
but they're an important part of
how we take a class-based language,
because Java really understands classes
and members at the lowest level,
but doesn't have any component-based
architecture at the language level,
and layers on top of that a
component architecture that
understands properties and events.
So JBuilder understands the
Java beans architecture and provides
a very sophisticated designer.
So you can take Java beans from anywhere,
Java beans from Sun, like AWT and Swing,
although I'd argue about Swing being
acceptable Java beans occasionally,
Java beans from Borland.
And we provide a set of databases.
We have data access technologies
and Data Express that really
are layered over top of JDBC,
DBSwing,
which are data-aware Swing components,
and Internet Beans,
which allow you to produce
dynamic HTML using a set of beans,
or third-party components,
because Java beans is a standard and
we can drop any bean into the IDE,
and we'll look at how easy
that kind of thing is to do.
All of this is done using Borland's
patented two-way tool technology,
and two-way tools are what allow us
to do visual manipulation of a file,
and then go back and modify it.
So you can go back and modify the source
code and see those changes reflected
dynamically in the graphical environment,
so that you can seamlessly
move back and forth.
There's no code generated that
you aren't allowed to touch.
It's your code.
So let's have a look at that.
Again, back to the demo machine, please.
They're going to get
sick of my saying that.
They know they should switch
back to the demo machine.
So if we go into just a very
simple application here,
this Welcome app,
and I go ahead and open the
Welcome frame in the designer,
what's going on now is we're having
a look at the source code and
figuring out what it looks like.
And it looks like a very,
very empty frame.
So that's fine.
I can start with this as a
starting point and say I'd like
this frame to use an XY layout,
which is sort of an absolute
positioning technology.
I'd like to put a button
and a text field on it,
and perhaps I'd like to put a
scrolling area and a tree as well.
And everything I'm doing here
is generating source code.
If you look at this JB init method,
this is sort of my static
construction of this environment.
But I can do... Again,
this manipulation of code
or manipulation visually.
Either way, it's up to me.
So if I don't like the
text on that button,
I want the text on
that button to say add.
And again, if you weren't there,
I did a rather perverse little
demonstration a moment ago
in one of the other sessions.
I actually put an expression in here.
Well,
let's be even more obnoxious about this,
and let's go between JButton1
and setText and add a comment.
So we've got here a piece of logic.
We've got a legal Java code
that has changed the label
on this button to add item.
And if we flip back to the designer,
the designer parses through that and says
the button has the text add item in it.
Nice stuff.
It goes a step further.
Let's say I change that
text to remove item.
Well, it's got an expression and a
comment and a bunch of other
sort of nasty stuff in there.
So if I make that change and
go back to my source code,
what happens?
Well, we leave everything in your code
the way it was and make a surgical
change to replace only the expression
that used to be there with the
new value that you've typed in.
So again, it's your source code.
We just help you with it.
So what I've got here is
I've got a fairly basic and
relatively unattractive layout,
but if you'll excuse me,
I'll just sort of juggle
that a little bit here.
One of the important things
about Java are layout managers.
There are some slick technologies
in Interface Builder for
helping you position things,
but you're still positioning
them using absolute positioning.
What happens when I then translate
my application into another language
and the text on a button gets longer?
Well, you need to come up with another
set of absolute positions for that.
Or what if I change my font size?
Then everything needs to
be arranged differently,
and that's sort of
difficult to deal with.
Well, Java uses layout managers
to cope with this,
but layout managers can
be tough to understand.
There's one called grid bag
layout that's the most powerful,
perhaps,
and it would allow me to do a lot of
very sophisticated manipulation of this.
But I would need to know all
about grid bag constraints.
So instead, what we can do is we can use
JBuilder to help me out here.
So I'm going to lay things
out the way I want them,
and then go back and say,
I don't want to use XY layout.
What I want to do is use grid bag layout.
And behind the scenes,
what we've done is translate all of
my calls with absolute positioning
into grid bag constraints.
Some of you have obviously
done some grid bag work before.
So we can literally go
through and resize this,
and you'll see that we have
inferred some rather reasonable
resizing behaviors for this.
So the designer is a pretty
cool piece of technology,
even if you think about it in
terms of standard components.
But what if we want to
write our own components?
Has anybody here tried to add a
component to Interface Builder's palette?
The one or two.
You know, the rest of you haven't tried
it because you knew it was easy,
right?
I'm sorry to pick on it,
but really it's an early component model
where the important thing was being
able to provide reusable components.
And for us,
we decided that it was important to
be able to create reusable components.
So I'm going to create one right now.
Thank you.
So what I'm going to do
is create a new class.
And this particular class
I'm going to call myButton,
and it's going to descend
from javax-swing-jbutton.
So it's just a button at this point.
And we go ahead and generate some code.
We have a look at it to see if you
need to do anything in particular.
And all I'm going to do in my
button is go ahead and say,
by default,
I'm going to set the background
on the button to the color green.
And if there are any people here who
worked on the Aqua look and feel,
they may be cringing at this moment.
Is this a good build to do this in?
We'll find out.
So what I've done is I've
created a new button here.
And of course we actually
need to import Java AWT.
to get access to color constants.
So I've got a new button here.
What if I go into my code and
I want to use one of those?
Well, for one thing,
grid bag is not the friendliest
place to manipulate things.
So I'm going to go ahead-- although we
do provide you a lot of hints about what
the various insets are and so forth,
and you can visually manipulate them.
That's kind of nice.
But I'm going to flip back to xy layout,
so I can go ahead and use absolute
positioning and bring my new bean in.
How hard is it?
Well, you could add it to the palette
using a couple of steps.
But you could also just say,
I'd like to use the Any Bean tool
and just go out and find it.
And so in this case,
I have this com_borland--
we're still in samples,
right?
Welcome my button.
So I can go and pick a new button that
I've created and drop it in place.
Green background setting
was not a good choice.
I take it.
Let's go ahead and set the
foreground color instead.
Let's change this to set foreground.
I don't need to spell the whole thing.
Code Insight will give me a hand there.
Go ahead and compile that.
and come back to welcome frame now you
notice a couple of interesting things
one I change the class on the fly and we
picked up the new version of the class
and injected into your existing a code
here so you can do it or if development
you don't need to shut down and restart
or anything like that will just pick
up new versions the being as fast as
you can throw them at us but second
you'll notice that we have a new being
dropped in just like that now let's
go one step further I could go zillions
of steps further but this is a a limited
session of course I'm gonna do a get foo
method and a public void set foo method
And I'm going to be really obnoxious
and not do anything with the value.
Perhaps GetFu will always return-- sorry.
Go ahead and compile this.
Flip back to my welcome frame.
Are we seeing just paint issues?
And what we'll see is that the foo
showed up in our inspector automatically.
No work on my behalf.
It notices that it's a string and
gives you a string type editor for it.
That's JavaBeans and the visual designer.
There's some incredibly slick
stuff that you can do here.
I could get into database components,
what have you.
If we have enough time,
we'll come back and we'll
look at some of those things.
But if we can return to the slides,
we'll move on from visual design.
Java server pages and servlets.
This is a big deal for a lot
of people looking at Java for
server-side development.
It's a technology that's blessed
by Sun as the standard way of
doing dynamic content because,
of course, in the web,
static HTML is yesterday.
That's not interesting anymore.
What we want is content
that's generated on the fly.
And JBuilder provides some
very interesting support for
dynamic web content through
Java server pages and servlets.
One of the things, of course,
is that with JSPs,
what you have is a mix of HTML and Java.
Now, we wouldn't recommend that you
embed a lot of Java in your HTML.
Typically, what you're going to embed are
references to significant other
technology that you maintain elsewhere
so that you don't have your presentation
and your behavior too intermixed.
But it still gives you the flexibility
of choosing on a variety of
interesting ways what content to call
in dynamically into your static HTML.
It's just that we need a
way to edit this stuff.
Also, we need to be able to run it.
So you could take that JSP page and set
up a server and get the server running
and open your web browser and view it,
but it would be nice if
we did something there,
so we'll show you that.
And, of course,
all the way through to actually
viewing it in an HTML viewer.
JBuilder integrates this whole process,
and we'll see how.
There are a bunch of new
things in JBuilder 5 that,
if you're familiar
with servlets and JSPs,
might be of interest to you.
Support for multiple servlet contexts.
This is one of them.
Before,
we supported a single servlet context,
and that was sort of annoying if you
needed to integrate several different
servlets which had references to,
quote, "absolute positions" within their
context that conflicted with one another.
If you integrated those into one project,
things got confusing.
So now we allow you to separate
those into two separate servlet
contexts that have their own root
level for the set of HTML references.
It's also interesting
to generate WAR files.
Why?
Before,
JSPs and servlets were individual files
that you sort of managed on your own.
Now there's a new
standard for web archives,
WARS,
that you want to be able to deploy a
whole set of functionality in one go,
and JBuilder will build your WAR for you.
Also, vaguely related, but, you know,
didn't want to slide on its own,
Web Start bundling.
Did anybody here see the
Web Start demo in the Java intro?
A couple of people here.
So Web Start is a neat way of
delivering your application.
What you can do is bundle it up
with a web page with a bunch of
things and a bunch of XML and,
well, wouldn't it be nice if you
didn't have to do that?
Somebody else did it for you.
And that's what JBuilder's here for.
We're also going to talk a
little bit about Java debugging.
I didn't want to do too many flips
back and forth between the slides,
so we'll have a look
at this a little bit.
Because if there's anything
you spend perhaps as much time
in as your source code editor,
it's probably your debugger.
I'll admit it, I don't write bug-free
code the first pass,
but by the time I'm done with it,
it's in great shape because we provide
you a lot of really powerful tools.
So we'll talk a little bit
about the Java debugger.
It's an integrated debugger in the IDE,
and a couple of the things that it
does that are really noteworthy,
not only can you browse
through objects and so forth,
but we provide full
expression evaluation.
That means not only can I see
the value of a variable,
I can call a method on an object
and see the return of that,
or I can even modify it by
calling a setter or something.
So it's a very sophisticated
debugger from that perspective.
And it provides you the ability
to edit absolutely any data type.
A lot of people will say, yeah,
we can modify data types.
We can modify data in ours,
but they usually mean we
can modify primitives,
integers, and characters,
and if you're really lucky,
maybe strings.
But in practice, we can actually edit
just about any data type,
which is pretty neat.
It also has extremely
flexible breakpoints.
Everybody's used to seeing the click
on a line and get a breakpoint,
but we provide line breakpoints,
class breakpoints.
That's kind of interesting.
I want to know any time anybody
calls any method in a given class.
And you can use wildcards
for the name of the class.
So you could say any class with the
letter E or something equal to E.
That's basically silly.
But there are times.
Anything in this package, for example.
Field access and field modification.
If the underlying VM supports it,
we allow you to provide breakpoints
on modification and access to fields,
which is pretty slick stuff.
That's similar in some ways to database
breakpoints in traditional C debugger,
except that we're able to say for any
member or for any instance of this class,
whenever this field is touched.
So you don't need to try to
track down where all of this is.
And we can also provide
breakpoints on exceptions.
So you want to know, of course,
I've got an exception
handler for my IO exception,
but I want to stop if an
IO exception is actually thrown.
And we can do that with our debugger.
Also, of course, once the debugger has
a breakpoint defined,
you want to be able to refine it further.
Provide an expression that gets
evaluated or provide a number of
times through that it needs to
go before it will actually break.
Or even provide an expression that gets
logged and not have it stop at all.
These are all features of
the debugger that we have.
So let's see both of these things.
We'll go through some of the web
technology and we'll go through a
little bit of the debugging technology.
So I'm going to start a brand new
project to look at some of the web stuff.
And within this project,
I'm going to create just an empty JSP.
Nothing particularly fascinating here,
but actually, yeah,
let's go ahead and do that.
So where's my project?
And you'll see that,
and actually let's add
that to my project as well.
It's probably something
I shouldn't have done.
By the way,
a lot of you may have seen this
file browser that comes up,
and it's not the standard file browser.
Why?
We do some interesting things with it.
In Java, you need to be able to drill
into some file types that you
might not normally look into.
For example, if I've got a jar,
it would be sort of nice to be able
to see the directories in the jar,
the files in those individual
directories inside the jar,
and be able to open those files.
We provide you that kind of depth.
So there's a lot of extra
functionality tacked in here.
But that's not what I was about to show.
Excuse me for getting sidetracked.
I'm easily excited by
my own product here.
So we'll go ahead with this foo.jsp.
And with this jsp, of course,
what we can do is write HTML.
So I'm going to write
just some basic HTML here.
You'll notice that the structure
pane gives you the same ability to
jump to tags as it gave within--
within Java source.
So my body's not going to
be especially interesting.
But how about the random
number for the day is?
And we'll go ahead and spit out
the random number for the day.
You'll see that these special
tags are colored differently.
Why?
Because they're an indication
of something very interesting.
We've now switched from HTML mode,
where we're syntax highlighting in HTML,
to Java mode, where we'll start
recognizing Java keywords,
things like if.
That's pretty cool.
But it's even cooler when you
start doing something like out dot,
and it recognizes that
I'm embedded in a JSP,
and out has a meaning within a JSP.
It's a variable of a particular type,
and code insight kicks in.
And shows you these are the various
methods that you can use here.
So our coding tools work even
in this hybrid environment,
which is extremely powerful.
and I could go ahead and
print something in here,
what have you.
What I'm going to do is just go to
a prefab project just to save time.
Where I have a more
sophisticated example.
This calendar JSP goes through
and uses embedded Java,
as you can see, a mix of Java and HTML,
to create a calendar for the current
month with the current day selected.
All I need to do to run that is
just go ahead and say web run.
And what we'll do is notice, hey,
you're trying to run a JSP.
Let's make sure that that's legal first,
so we'll precompile it so that you
can fix any errors within the IDE.
Then we'll go ahead and start Tomcat.
Why is that interesting?
Because Tomcat is the
JSP engine for Apache,
which, of course, is your web server,
courtesy Mac OS X server.
So we're testing using the same
underlying JSP engine that you'll
be using on the server side.
We then feed it the JSP,
take the results of processing the JSP,
and show it in our
integrated HTML viewer.
So you've got the complete experience,
end to end.
Pretty cool stuff.
Along the way,
and we'll just shut that browser down,
and you can, of course,
see the actual source that was emitted.
If you want to have a look
at exactly what was emitted,
etc.
We created this web app,
and a web app is this servlet context.
A web application defines a context.
It also defines a deployment descriptor,
which we provide a graphical editor for,
so that if you want to
build a web archive,
you can do so just by going ahead
and building this particular web app,
and we'll build the WAR file for
you and do all of the packaging
that's required in the WAR file to
include the actual executable code,
the JSP itself, etc., etc.
So a lot of technology bundled together.
I also mentioned that we can
do Web Start bundling for you.
And if you want to take an application
and deploy it to Web Start,
this is pretty powerful stuff.
So I've got an application,
this Welcome app that we built earlier,
and I'm going to use the Archive Builder
to go ahead and bundle that up as an
application for me and build the jar.
Now I want to go ahead and turn
that into a Web Start application.
How tough is that?
Well, we go to the Web tab and say
I want a Web Start launcher.
I want to call this my welcome demo.
It's going to use the default web app.
That's fine.
The jar file is the welcome
jar that I just generated.
That, of course, is the directory.
This is the file.
JAR files are a little weird that way.
They're a little bit of both.
And I want it to, yes,
to go ahead and create
that home page for me.
I want to give it some meaningful
information about the title,
the vendor, the description,
which can help the user understand what
application it is they're installing,
and finish.
And what it's done is it's
built the HTML for Welcome Demo
for the Web Start application.
So if your user were to go to this page,
what they would get is
this message that says,
"Hey, you don't have Web Start installed.
It's a plug-in for your browser
that allows you to automatically
download Java applications,
and you need to install it like any
other plug-in." This page automatically
detects that the plug-in isn't installed,
gives you the information about
where to go to get the plug-in.
Unfortunately, Apple hasn't finished
the plug-in just yet.
So it'll be up there as soon as
the Web Start project is finished,
and your users would
be able to get at it.
But it's also built the
other piece that's necessary,
the JNLP file, which is an XML file that
contains the information about
my application and its structure.
So it's done all the work
necessary to go ahead and build
a Web Startable application,
which is pretty cool stuff.
So hang on to your seat belts.
We'll keep going here at this pace,
and we'll jump right on into
the debugging side of things.
Just quick pulse.
Are we going way too fast,
or is this about right?
Good?
OK.
We'll keep moving.
So let's launch into the debugging stuff.
I'm going to go and open another project
that I have lying around in my home.
That has a couple of really simple
things that we can examine and
manipulate for debugging purposes.
I didn't cook up anything
that had any bugs,
I'm sorry.
But if you want to see
the debugger at work,
you just need to know that you
have certain facilities that
you've been used to all along.
So what we'll do is we'll just
place the typical line break
point in this and get it started.
Launch the debugger.
The debugger needs to
know the main class,
which apparently I never
bothered to define.
And it brings up a user interface
at the bottom of the screen that
gives me my full debugging power
while still having access to
everything else in my environment.
I can still switch
between multiple projects.
I can compile things.
I can edit code.
I can do everything I want.
And there's a debugger down there.
And you'll note the debugger has
a tab at the bottom of the screen.
Why?
Because you can have multiple
debuggers open concurrently.
So if you're working on a
client server application,
you can be debugging the client
and the server simultaneously.
Each one has a full
debugger user interface.
Just, you know, little tidbits.
[Transcript missing]
It's pretty cool stuff.
It means that I now have full control
over any data type in my environment.
I can actually go in,
and I can cut objects.
Let's see.
There we go.
You don't have the key
bindings I'm used to.
So I can cut this object,
and I wind up with a null value.
But I could also go through and change
this value by selecting Change Value.
And I am asked to enter an
expression of type string,
by which I do not mean just
a collection of characters.
If I wanted the collection of characters,
sure, I could go ahead and type that in.
I mean, if I want to change this,
I can now create a string
by doing something like,
say, oh, this.getClass.getName.
And we'll get the name of the
current class and set that,
debugDemo.debugName.
So pretty slick stuff.
A very, very,
very powerful debugging environment.
We won't go through all of the features,
but just sort of as a quick glimpse,
we have the ability to set
watches on individual items.
So if I want to watch
this particular object,
I can create an object watch,
call it buddy, and it will show up on
the list of watches.
I can see all of the
classes that are loaded.
So if I want to see static variables,
I could drill in and say that Java, IO,
and Java.
So buffered stream has
a default buffered size,
so I can go and examine
static information,
see the set of breakpoints
that are currently set,
add various types of breakpoints,
go in and look at the
breakpoints we already have,
and say, you know,
I'd like to log a message
instead of stopping,
or I'd like to provide a
condition or a pass count.
So again, a lot of flexibility on that.
And get a list of all of the
classes for which I'm not
interested in stepping into them.
Have you ever before done the
step into and then realized,
oh no, I've stepped into somebody else's
library and I'm debugging their code,
but step over is no good either
because you've got this huge expression
that calls a few of people's other
methods and then calls one of yours.
Well, here you can block particular
packages or particular classes
from being traced into,
and we block all the
Java ones by default.
Or you can trace into them.
That's your choice.
So pretty powerful stuff.
And lastly, there's one tab at the top
that I'm going to show you.
It's called the top here.
You see this little screen icon that if
I step over something that sends output,
will go green to indicate that
there is output waiting for me,
console I/O, from my application.
And actually,
you can type into this as well,
and it provides a full console I/O.
So if you're not doing
a graphical application,
you again have everything you need
to work on your server-side app
or your console-based application
directly within the environment
without having to turn elsewhere.
[Transcript missing]
And we'll turn back to the slides.
XML.
Somebody managed to
miss the XML revolution.
It seems that this has taken over.
All of us are now to
do everything in XML.
According to some magazines
we should stop programming
in Java and program in XML.
Other magazines would tell
us that in fact XML will
simply solve all our problems.
And in reality those of us who've
worked with it a little bit,
just enough to get the feel for it,
understand that what XML is,
is it's a very powerful tool for solving
a very small part of every problem.
So if every single problem is
going to be solved this way,
then I better have some tools to
work with XML because it's not
going to solve things for me.
I better have some basic understanding
of what it is capable of and my
tools had better let me work with it.
And that's what JBuilder does is it
provides XML support not in terms of
being an XML IDE but providing the
kinds of things that a Java developer is
likely to be interested in because you're
going to interact with XML a little bit.
Everybody is.
So XML support provides us some basic
navigation and editing facilities,
validation facilities, DTD generation,
and transformation.
XML by itself is neat in a way, but XSL,
which allows me to provide a style
sheet for transforming one piece
of XML into another piece of XML,
is much cooler still.
So we'll show you what
we've been working on,
what's new in JBuilder 5 in terms of XML.
I'm going to go and
open a sample project.
It actually comes with the product.
We provide zillions of little
samples to help you get started.
Yes, I'm sorry.
Let me just make sure that, yes,
there's a demo.
That was your cue, I'm sorry.
If I drill down into an existing
project here that's designed to
showcase some of the XML functionality,
we'll see that what we have in here
is a DTD and a couple of XSL files.
We can look at the DTD.
It's exciting if you are
into that sort of thing.
We can look at the XSL files.
And you'll see that we do
syntax highlighting for them.
We recognize the file type and
we provide syntax highlighting.
We provide basic navigation facilities.
So that's pretty cool.
It gives you something.
But a DTD is interesting partially
because it describes what a
valid XML file looks like.
So one of the things we should be
able to do is take DTD and say,
you know,
I'd like to generate an XML file
that complies with this,
that uses the XML employees
as the root element.
And I'm going to go ahead and
specify that we're going to
use the system DTD here for...
is a great example of how
to use Blake Stone to get
the most out of your data.
So, we've got some XML here, and again,
we have the same sort of structural
view here that we can parse through
and find any of this information.
It'd be kind of nice if I could come
back and validate this particular XML,
and sure enough,
we can say validate this,
and we'll figure out what
DTD it's involved with.
And apparently, ah,
I specified the wrong path to get to it,
so it is invalid,
but let me validate that again,
and it is valid.
Now, if I make a mistake in it...
First thing you'll notice is our
little error insight kicks in and says,
hey, this doesn't even balance.
So you don't need to go all the
way to validation to find out
that this isn't even legal XML.
We'll find that for you on the fly.
But once you get to the point where
this is legal XML and you want to know
whether it really complies with the DTD,
that's a little bit more
like the compile pass.
And we'll do the validation,
tell you where the error is,
and then you can go through
and actually correct it.
So that gets you some of the sort
of mechanics of working with XML.
But transformation is
what's really important.
You get your raw data this way,
and if you wanted to
present it to somebody,
you need to transform it into
something other than raw XML.
And the typical thing to do
is to transform it into HTML.
So if we go to the transform view,
we provide you the ability
to pick any style sheet,
and it's just telling me it couldn't find
a style sheet for that particular one.
And then I can pick one of those,
the list view or the table view,
and it shows me the output of this.
Now the output in this case isn't
necessarily exciting because it's
going through another style sheet,
which I'll talk about in a second.
But if we turn that off,
then you begin to see where
the power of XML comes in,
is this ability to take this raw data,
transform it, and show it to somebody
in another fashion.
So now if I go into my raw data,
It's actually here, isn't it?
And say, I'd like to change this by
declaring another employee
perhaps Steve Jobs,
and go back to my transformation
view and refresh that.
Then we'll go and apply that
same transformation and get
this dynamic data thing going.
So this is a set of tools that
doesn't solve your problem,
because XML doesn't solve your problem.
It's a set of tools to help
you get familiar with XML,
to help you start learning
what XML is capable of,
and to take advantage of some of
the XML libraries that we provide,
because we provide the
Xerces parser and so forth,
and we provide the libraries that define
those as part of your environment.
So that's hopefully an exciting first
look at what we're doing with XML.
So if we can get back to the slides here.
That's all well and good.
You know,
we can do pure Java development.
We can do a bunch of cool
stuff with Java beans.
But if you're a Macintosh user,
you know there's nothing quite
like your native environment.
And you've seen hints of some of
the facilities that are available.
If you went to Steve Llewellyn's talk
on wrapping Cocoa APIs in Java beans,
very cool stuff.
The speech synthesis and recognition
and spell checking neatly wrapped
up so that you can just use them
in an environment like JBuilder.
And that's a hint that yes,
you can get direct access to
Cocoa stuff from within JBuilder.
So you could just drop those
beans in and take advantage of it.
But in fact, you could go a little
bit further than that.
You could go through and start writing
Cocoa applications in a pure sense.
So we'll look at that.
But we'll also talk a little bit
about how JBuilder... So JBuilder
helps you with new classes in general.
Because Apple provides you with a bunch
of classes that may not be familiar.
If you're an MRJ user,
you may know some of them already.
If you wait around a little while,
there's going to be a bunch more.
And what's important about JBuilder
is that it dynamically adapts to
any new class you can throw at it.
So all of our coding tools,
Code Insight technology,
our class browsers and
so on and so forth,
will learn about new classes
that you throw at it and give
you those same kinds of help.
So we'll look at that
a little bit as well.
But when it comes right down to it,
you're going to be left with a choice.
You can use these tools to do pure
Java in a cross-platform sense or write
pure Java code that really wrings every
last ounce of performance and flexibility
out of the Macintosh platform.
We don't make that choice.
The choice is up to you.
So let's have a little bit of a
look at what we can do in this area.
Now, you may have noticed I don't
really believe in scripts here.
I kind of like winging
things an awful lot more.
So this is sort of a first
crack at some of this stuff,
and I'm still waiting for answers from
a couple of Apple engineers because
I started thinking about this on Monday.
But it's really interesting to see
that I can sit down and write an
application and take advantage of the
right way to do a Cocoa interface,
which is not Java Bean,
so of course that means
Interface Builder,
and all the power of JBuilder
and meld them together.
So we're going to use JBuilder,
and we're going to use Interface Builder,
and we're going to tie the two
together into a brand new project.
So if I create a new project...
Within this project,
I'm going to create a new
class that's my main class.
And let's give this a
slightly better package name.
So I'll put this in
the Cocoa demo package,
and we'll call this Cocoa demo perhaps,
generate a main method.
And keep my fingers crossed
that I actually remembered what
I was doing and brought along
My Cocoa main.
Please excuse me.
Okay.
Not entirely scripted,
but I didn't want to torture
you by going through this.
What this is,
is it's the stuff necessary to go
and find a nib file and open it up.
And I'm going to go with cocodemo.nib.
But of course, we could deliver this
template with JBuilder.
We haven't actually finished
JBuilder 5 for Mac OS X.
We haven't signed it off,
so maybe I'll sneak that
in at the very last minute.
What this does-- some people would
like that-- is it gives you the
framework necessary to call this
nib in and get things started and
running as a Cocoa application.
Now, if I was really starting
from scratch on this,
and I had no real idea of how
to get to some of these classes,
So long as you tell
JBuilder about the path,
and so I'm going to add the set
of Cocoa classes to the path,
JBuilder can find out dynamically
for you about things like,
oh, I'm going to need to import
some of the right things.
Let's see, com, apple, Cocoa, and
is the founder of the
Mac OS X-specific foundation.
So you can see it helping me already
in finding the correct import names
because I don't remember them offhand,
and application.
So that if I go and ask, you know,
what are the methods for NSBundle?
It'll show me the bundle for class
and bundle with path methods.
It will show me that
for bundle with path,
what I need to do is pass it as string.
So all of these kinds of things
are a lot easier to find.
And it's not because JBuilder
knew about them ahead of time.
It's because I added those
classes to my class path,
JBuilder found them,
and did the right thing
with them on the fly.
It can do an awful lot more if
it can find the sources in terms
of parameter names and so forth,
but even just the raw class
files give us an immediate start.
So now we have this
particular application.
It's not all that exciting
because there is no Cocoa.nib.
Let's go ahead and get interface
builder involved in this.
So what I'm doing, of course,
is assuming-- thank you-- the
developer applications are
installed on this machine.
This is a developer's conference,
after all.
And I'll bring Interface Builder up,
and we'll go and open an
example nib file and have a
look at the way it's structured,
what's been set up in it already.
So if I go and open from my--quick
question because I've been an
Apple advocate for a long time,
but I've got to admit I was
out of it for a while.
Does everybody intuitively
recognize this as the option
or alt key or is it just me?
You know,
has that been a standard long enough?
Sorry.
That just, it gets to me.
So I'm going to go ahead and open
this CocoaDemo.nib file that I have,
and we'll have a look at it.
This should be really familiar.
Everybody built this application
at least once in Objective-C,
and if you've gone through the
Java tutorial for how to build
this stuff with Project Builder,
you've also seen the same one.
What we have here are the Fahrenheit and
Celsius fields that we can type into,
and if you look at them, you'll see that,
sure enough, when I hit enter,
they'll send an action that I've
got a temperature controller,
and if we look at the
temperature controller class...
"Which I have here called converter.
It has outlets for Celsius and
Fahrenheit and an action convert.
And surprise, surprise,
I've got all these things wired up so
that you can get to the appropriate
fields and the fields both fire convert.
methods when you hit the Enter key.
So I've got everything I need in place.
All I need to do is go ahead
and save this nib in my project.
[Transcript missing]
And then go ahead and generate the
source code for Cocodemo.converter.
So I'm going to go
ahead and create files.
Say I want to go ahead and
generate that one into my source.
Oh, that's going to be bad, isn't it?
I mistyped the package name.
We'll go ahead and correct that
and see a few other JBuilder
features while we're at it.
You know, this is why I made this little
comment about this is live.
I don't really script all this
stuff to the nth degree because
I believe I can probably fix
this sort of thing on my feet.
So, if we go into my JB project
directory and look at source CocoaDem
and change this to CocoaDemo,
what I've done, of course,
is change the structure of my project.
And within JBuilder now,
if I just refresh, it notices, hey,
your source has changed.
You've got a different package.
So we'll go ahead and change this
to Cocoa Demo and get that right.
And we've also generated this converter.
And so the converter that's been
generated for me by Interface Builder,
because Interface
Builder understands Java,
Apple's right with the program here,
is it's generated this stub here that has
the appropriate object references that
Interface Builder is going to go ahead
and set when I instantiate this nib.
And it's got this convert method.
All I need to do is fill
out the convert method.
Well, I hope you're not too entirely
shocked that I had the
converter pre-written as well.
So just a little thing.
I don't know if this
means anything to you.
It means a lot to me.
If I go ahead and take that same
template and expand it elsewhere,
it pays attention to the indent level.
You know, it's the little things
that matter sometimes.
Thank you.
And if you look at this converter,
it's not all that exciting.
It plays a sound just because it can,
and then checks to see who it is that
sent it and converts the temperature
and stores the result in the other one.
So I should have here an application
that if I go ahead and run and
specify my main class here,
and it's Cocoa Demo.
That we actually should get-- and let's
go ahead and hide interface builder,
because it's going to
confuse the situation here.
We should have gotten the user interface.
Let me just very quickly scan
through this and make sure
that there's no surprises.
: Cocoa demo converter.
What's a J button?
: It's an import.
Oh, my main class is a button.
Oh goodness, that's evil.
Thank you.
That's what I get for
going through this quickly.
So let's recompile that.
And run it.
And so we get our temperature
converter over here.
We can go into the temperature
converter and type a value.
We get the conversion.
And what we have here
is a Cocoa application.
Very, very cool stuff.
I've got to fess up to something.
It's not a full-fledged
Cocoa application.
By the time I get a few answers
from a few more Apple engineers,
it will actually have
an icon on the dock.
But that's what we're all here for,
right?
Get answers to the ponderable side here.
But let's go one step further.
We have a Cocoa application.
Let's go ahead and drop a breakpoint
in our Cocoa application and go
and debug it from within JBuilder.
So we can compile this.
We get it started.
We'll get our UI over here and
go ahead and type in a value.
If I go from the correct field,
I probably put the breakpoint
the other direction.
There we go.
We'll hit that breakpoint
from within JBuilder,
and then inside JBuilder,
I can start examining things,
and I can see...
Put this in the correct place.
I can see, for example,
that sender is an instance
of NSTextField and Celsius is
an instance of NSTextField.
And I could even go ahead and take
advantage of what we like to call
the world's largest tooltip and click
on one of these and browse those
directly in place and see what we can
see from the Java side of the bridge.
Perhaps not a whole bunch,
but it's sort of interesting to start
examining the internals of Cocoa directly
from within a Java debugger.
So again, Cocoa from Java.
This is something that we're going
to spend some time researching
and make sure that it's an
option that's available to you.
So if we can flip back to the slides.
JBuilder is a really interesting
product from a lot of points of view.
I love that it's written in Java.
I love that it's actually
the same object code,
not just the same source code,
but the same object code
running on all these platforms.
I love that the first time we
got the debugger up and running,
we took it to Solaris and said,
what happens if we run it over here?
And the debugger worked on another
platform the very first time we tried it.
This is really good.
It's really compelling
and powerful stuff to me.
And as potential Java developers or as
Java developers out in the audience,
it should be equally exciting
from your perspective.
But I really like how dynamic Java is.
So when we had a chance to
redesign JBuilder and really
put everything in Java,
we took advantage of it and
really to the hilt went for
dynamic discovery of features.
It's what we call the JBuilder
open tools architecture.
It means that JBuilder,
when you launch it,
learns about the things that it can do.
It's what it can do
from scratch every time.
You may have worked with other
people's plug-in architectures before,
and you may have seen that what's typical
of a plug-in architecture is that the
plug-ins let you do some cool things,
but that there are a lot of things
that they did that you can't do
through the plug-in architecture.
Well, JBuilder is written with its
own open tools architecture.
That means our designer is just a viewer
plugged into our open tools architecture.
All of our editor key bindings
are plugged in through the
open tools architecture.
JBuilder itself consists of close to 300
open tools loosely clustered together.
In fact, if you remove all of the open
tools and the libraries they use,
there's one class and one interface.
That's it.
So it's a pretty powerful framework,
and it's one that we strongly encourage
other people to plug things into.
So if you want to tailor the environment,
you can.
You can add new viewers, file types,
editor behaviors, dialogues, and much,
much more, to use the typical phrase.
But we mean it.
I mean, this is powerful stuff.
We've seen third parties do very,
very cool things using the
open tools architecture.
And if you look around,
you'll find that there are a number
of application server vendors and
big companies who have products
that they'd like a Java IDE for.
But instead of inventing
one from scratch,
they can just tailor JBuilder
and make it work for them.
What's especially cool about that
is anybody who writes an open
tool has to write it in Java.
And if it's written in Java,
it probably already works on Mac OS X.
So all of those open tools
that have been written,
you can take advantage of them
the day JBuilder hits the street.
And in fact, if you're brave,
you could probably take the
copy that's in your bag,
go home,
download a couple of those open tools,
and start using them today.
So that's really compelling stuff.
As I was in the prior session,
I realized I wasn't planning on
making a USB device anytime soon.
I just really wanted to be in the room,
and there was not that much point
in my paying a lot of attention.
So I spent the last half of the
session writing an open tool
that sort of just occurred to me.
And let's have a look at what
you can do in half a session
when you're worried a little bit
about battery life and everything
else that goes along with that.
You can take an idea and
almost get it all the way.
Well, if we can, oh yes, my apologies.
I keep not going to the Clue slides.
I'm probably their least
favorite presenter by this point.
I'm going to go to my home
and have a look at AppWrapper.
Because one of the things that people
will point to JBuilder and say is that,
you know,
obviously it's a pure Java environment.
They build jars, they build wars,
they build rars, they build, I mean,
literally,
these things are all valid acronyms,
ears, etc.
But what about a
double-clickable application?
And it just, you know,
we're trying to get the first
copy out to get things going.
We're trying to get things
going as fast as possible.
And building a double-clickable
application was just too late in the
cycle for us to put in the product.
But as an open tool,
it's a very different story.
So what I did is I sat down and looked
at the process of what it would take
to build an open tool that gives
you a double-clickable application.
And just to give you
kind of a quick sample,
this is all the code.
And just kind of what it does,
the initialize open tool goes into
our project view mechanism and
registers a context action provider.
So that means that in our project view,
if we bring up a context
menu on something,
we should be able to now have
new functionality registered.
And it goes on to say this functionality
should only show up if you have a
single thing selected and that thing
is a jar file and it should bring up
something that says create app wrapper
for this jar file and then go through
the motions of creating the basic
structure and copying things into it.
And if I had any of the
documentation handy,
I would have actually used
the standard MRJ app builder,
but instead I just sort of rolled my own.
This allows me then, theoretically,
to extend JBuilder.
Well, let's go ahead and compile it.
You'll notice the compile
took a whole bunch of time.
And what it did was built this
app wrapper jar file that contains
the necessary class and a manifest
file that tells JBuilder that,
yes, this is an open tool.
If I were to go to some application
in JBuilder without modifications,
such as my welcome application,
and bring up the context menu for a jar,
you'd see that it has
a variety of options,
but it doesn't have
anything for an app wrapper.
Well, let's change that.
What I'm going to do is
not save all of this.
I suppose it doesn't matter.
What I'm going to do is go and
find a directory that contains
all of our open tool definitions.
It's in JBuilder 5.
It's a directory called Open Tools.
It's actually installed as user
writable so that you can drop
things in like my tweak to turn on
hardware graphics acceleration here.
Or in this case, go into my
AppWrapper and find that jar file,
drop a jar file in, and restart JBuilder.
That's it.
So the installation process
is pretty straightforward.
You drop something in
the open tools directory,
start the product,
and at launch time we dynamically
discover new capabilities.
And this new capability in particular
should be that it can create a
double clickable application.
Now I will admit I came down
to the final seconds of the
session and I had a bug left.
So it gets almost all the way and
I'll show you what we have to do
to get it the rest of the way.
Go to welcome jar and note
create app wrapper for
welcome jar now just shows up.
This is one of the zillions of
places you can plug things in.
If you'll excuse me while I sort
of take a divergent story,
we actually got a message through
tech support from a fellow working
for a company that said I'm trying to
write a whole new file system based
on XML and plug it into JBuilder.
And it worked.
It works fine.
I can open things and so forth,
but I need to be able to go
ahead and add to my source path
pointers into my XML file system.
And we were able to actually tell them,
well,
that's nice because the open dialogue
actually allows you to extend the
set of root elements in the directory
browser with things in any virtual file
system that you've written in Java.
So little things like that are
getting done by people out there.
Why?
We built the architecture for
ourselves and we've just opened it.
We've opened it to the rest of the world.
I'm sorry, again,
a little bit of a sidetracked topic,
but let's go ahead and
create app wrapper for this.
And boom, it's gone off and it's
done the basic work.
If I were to actually go
to that welcome project,
and the welcome project is in our
samples in the JBuilder framework.
Welcome.
I'd find welcome.app.
So it's built me a little app wrapper.
Unfortunately,
it's left out one line in one
file and forgotten to set the
executable bit on something.
Sigh.
Last minute demos.
I thought you'd be forgiving.
You're a developer audience after all,
and real demos are always
much better than canned demos.
So let's go in and have a look at
this welcome app and it created
Does everybody else get 2Ds sometimes?
Let's see.
It's left off one line
in-- not the executable.
It's left off one line in a config file.
To specify the main class,
I should have known.
And it's forgotten to set the
executable bit on Java Launcher.
I'll get both of those
things in there shortly.
We should have-- see, it's on the dock.
It should be loading bits and
pieces of swing as we speak.
And have I-- yes, live demos.
Does anybody remember the last thing
I did in Welcome App before I turned
it into a double-clickable application?
Let's see what the launcher does.
Activating lightweight.
xy layout.
I didn't bundle my xy layout,
which I was still using in there.
So you can see we have
got double clickable.
It shows up on the dock.
If I had code that
would actually execute,
it would actually run it.
So to clarify, of course,
this isn't a feature of JBuilder.
This is a feature I whipped up in a
few minutes during the last session.
You can do the same.
We'll continue to do the same.
And we'll continue to make sure
that if we find cool things we
can do on the Mac OS X platform,
open tools are one easy way
to slip things out the side
door without having to wait for
another release of the product.
One very last thing, by the way,
because it never gets brought up,
and is it a Macintosh-like thing?
No.
But some of us here have to
deal with reality constraints.
How many people here have to automate
a build process for a project?
Right?
Graphical tools work real well for that.
You run into some problems.
So one of the things that we did
is made sure that JBuilder actually
has a command line behavior.
So in this case, we can say things like,
"JBuilder, build the project at developer
applications." Let's see if
I can find this one again.
Samples, welcome, welcome.jpx.
And it'll kick up the command line
version of the JBuilder build process and
do everything in my project definition.
It'll check the Java dependencies,
compile necessary files, build archives,
build war files, ear files, you name it.
It's the attention to detail
that makes it obvious we've
been at this for a little bit.
So if we can switch back to the slides.
The preview CD you've got,
I want to mention really briefly,
you definitely must get
Apple's Java VM update.
Yes, you can run it on Mac OS X,
the initial release.
We'll bring up a warning letting
you know that it's going to be a
little bit suboptimal on that release
because the debugger really desperately
needs some JDK 1.3.1 technology.
And also, of course,
we benefit from a lot of the work
the team has been pouring their
hearts into over the past couple of
months since the release of Mac OS X.
You need to go to the Borland
community site to get a license.
But don't worry,
you can opt out of any possible contact,
so we'll just make sure that
we get the license key to you.
But if you're interested
in JBuilder information,
then that's a way to make sure that
you get further information from
us to let you know when JBuilder
for Mac is actually going to ship.